# API documentation

Welcome to the API documentation section of the website. Here you will find documentation for the `arolariu` code namespace.
This namespace is the root namespace for all the code that I write.

> [!NOTE]
>
> As of 8th of June 2023, the `arolariu` namespace contains 2 sub-namespaces:
>
> - `arolariu.Backend` <-- contains the XML documentation for the backend solution.
> - `arolariu.Frontend` <--- contains the XML documentation for the frontend solution.

## How to navigate the API documentation

The documentation is structured in a `nested way`, so if you want to navigate to a specific namespace, you can click on it in the navigation menu.

For example, if you want to navigate to the `arolariu.Backend.Domain.General.Services` namespace, you need to:

Step 1. Expand the `arolariu` namespace in the navigation menu. (breadcrumb: API Documentation > arolariu)

Step 2. Expand the `Backend` namespace in the navigation menu. (breadcrumb: API Documentation > arolariu > Backend)

Step 3. Expand the `Domain` namespace in the navigation menu. (breadcrumb: API Documentation > arolariu > Backend > Domain)

Step 4. Expand the `General` namespace in the navigation menu. (breadcrumb: API Documentation > arolariu > Backend > Domain > General)

Step 5. Expand the `Services` namespace in the navigation menu. (breadcrumb: API Documentation > arolariu > Backend > Domain > General > Services)

## How to contribute

If you want to contribute to the documentation, you can do so by creating a pull request on the GitHub repository.

However, take into consideration that the documentation is generated from the XML documentation files that are generated by the compiler.

If you find that something is not right or is not correct, you can open an issue on the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/arolariu/arolariu.ro).
Most likely the issue is in the code, not in the documentation, as the documentation is generated from the code.

## Revision history

| Date (YYYY-MM-DD) | Description      | Author           |
| ----------------- | ---------------- | ---------------- |
| 2023-06-08        | Initial version. | Alexandru Olariu |
